.TH LIDHANDLER 1 "2026-06-17" "LidHandler 1.1.0" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
lidhandler \- toggle laptop lid switch suspend behavior
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B lidhandler
.RI [ COMMAND ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B LidHandler
manages laptop lid switch behavior using systemd-logind drop-in
configuration files. Prevent suspend-on-lid-close without modifying the
base logind.conf.
.SH COMMANDS
.TP
.B enable
Prevent suspend on lid close. Creates a drop-in file at
.I /etc/systemd/logind.conf.d/10-lidhandler.conf
with HandleLidSwitch=ignore.
.TP
.B disable
Restore default suspend on lid close. Removes the drop-in file.
.TP
.B status
Show current lid switch behavior (ignore or suspend).
.TP
.B toggle
Toggle between enable and disable. This is the default when no command is given.
.SH DAEMON MODE
Daemon mode provides temporary lid switch inhibition without persistent
configuration changes. Uses
.BR systemd-inhibit (1)
to hold an inhibitor lock.
.TP
.B lidhandler daemon
Start daemon in foreground. Press Ctrl-C to stop.
.TP
.B lidhandler daemon \-d
Start daemon in background. Use
.B lidhandler daemon stop
to stop it.
.TP
.B lidhandler daemon stop
Stop the background daemon.
.TP
.B lidhandler daemon status
Check if the daemon is running.
.SH FILES
.TP
.I /etc/systemd/logind.conf.d/10-lidhandler.conf
Drop-in configuration file created by
.B lidhandler enable.
.TP
.I /run/lidhandler-daemon.pid
PID file for background daemon.
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
Enable lid-ignored mode (persistent):
.PP
.RS 4
sudo lidhandler enable
.RE
.PP
Start daemon in foreground (temporary):
.PP
.RS 4
sudo lidhandler daemon
.RE
.PP
Start daemon in background:
.PP
.RS 4
sudo lidhandler daemon -d
.RE
.PP
Stop background daemon:
.PP
.RS 4
sudo lidhandler daemon stop
.RE
.PP
Check daemon status:
.PP
.RS 4
sudo lidhandler daemon status
.RE
.SH EXIT STATUS
.TP
.B 0
Success.
.TP
.B 1
Error (not root, invalid command, or operation failed).
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR logind.conf (5),
.BR systemd-inhibit (1)
.SH AUTHORS
LidHandler Contributors.
